Arduino-based Plant Watering System

This is my minor assignment of EECS 1021. The assignment consisted of writing a java program that would allow me to water a plant based off of the moisture of the soil. In order to do this, I needed to hook up an arduino grove board to my computer, and use the program to control the grove board. The program that resides on my grove board and my written program would link up and accomplish the task of watering the plant. 

There were multiple tools and pieces of equipment needed to perform this task. I needed the arduino grove board kit that runs firmata, and I needed a device capable of running Java. The arduino grove board is a system of hardware components such as sensors and circuits that run the arduino program on it. By using firmata and firmata4j, I could write the program on my main computer, and send the commands to my board. The various components that come with the board would allow me to measure the moisture and water the plant.

First I wrote the code of the main program. The program I used to write the code was java, and I needed the firmata arduino program to help hook the arduino grove board to the computer. I first did all the set-up for the main class of my code, such as setting up all the pins and initializing the variables that I was going to use for the pins on the board. I then made the button listener event that would end the program after the button is pressed. After I made sure I got the code right, I set up the grove board and put in all the various devices and wires needed to set up the system, such as the moisture sensor and the water pump. I ran multiple tests to see if my system worked and made changes and improvements throughout the whole project. For example, instead of having the pump to pump water seamlessly and without stopping, I changed it to water periodically in order to not overflow the plant, and also to make it easier to stop the pump when it should be stopped.
